.TH metro 1
.SH NAME
metro \- METRo is a road weather forecast software from Environment Canada.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B metro
[\fB\-\-config\fR \fIfilename\fR][\fB\-\-enable\-sunshadow \fR[\fB\-\-sunshadow\-method \fImethod\fR]\fR] [\fB\-\-help\fR]  [\fB\-\-fix-deep\-soil\-temperature \fItemperature\fR\] [\fB\-\-generate\-config\fR \fIfilename\fR] [\fB\-\-input\-forecast\fR \fIfilename\fR] [\fB\-\-input\-observation\fR \fIfilename\fR] [\fB\-\-input\-station\fR \fIfilename\fR] [\fB\-\-lang\fR \fI[fr|en]\fR] [\fB\-\-log\-file\fR \fIfilename\fR] [\fB\-\-output\-roadcast\fR \fIfilename\fR]  [\fB\-\-output-subsurface-levels\fR] [\fB\-\-roadcast-start-date\fR \fIdate\fR] [\fB\-\-selftest\fR] [\fB\-\-silent\fR] [\fB\-\-use\-anthropogenic\-flux\fR]  [\fB\-\-use\-infrared\-forecast\fR] [\fB\-\-use-sst-sensor-depth\fR] [\fB\-\-use\-solarflux\-forecast\fR] [\fB\-\-verbose\-level\fR \fIlevel\fR] [\fB\-\-version\fR]  

.SH DESCRIPTION
With the help of observations provided by roads weather stations (road weather information system, RWIS) and the atmospheric forecast, METRo can predict the roads conditions with particular interest such as: freezing rain, accumulation of snow, frost or defrost soil. 



.SH OPTIONS



.TP
.B \-\-config filename
If a configuration file is provided, the options in this file can be used instead of those given in command line.  To generate a file with the requested format, see the option \-\-generate\-config .
.TP
.B \-\-enable\-sunshadow
Optional.  METRo uses sun-shadow algorithm to determine if the road is exposed to sun at a particular time. There is two methods to compute this shadow. See the option \-\-sunshadow\-method for more details. The station XML file contains the information about the visible elevation of the road under the '<visible\-horizon>' element. The sun-shadow routine requires <azimuth>, <elevation> pairs being ordered by growing azimuths values and also uniform step in azimuth is required (i.e, each neighbour azimuth values are displaced by same distance), otherwise it can give a wrong results.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display a list of command line options.
.TP
.B \-\-fix-deep\-soil\-temperature temperature
Optional. Fix the deep soil temperature to a given value in degree Celsius. 'temperature' must be a number between the maximum and minimum road temperature values given in metro_constant.py. When this flag is not set, the default value is computed from the surface and deep sensor values.
.TP
.B \-\-generate\-config filename
Generate an empty config file.  You can then fill the options that will be used if the option \-\-config is set to filename on a subsequent call to metro.
.TP
.B \-\-input\-forecast filename
Set where is the atmosperic forecast file.
.TP
.B \-\-input\-observation filename
filename is where the observation of the RWIS station is.
.TP
.B \-\-input\-station filename
filename is where the configuration file of the RWIS station is.
.TP
.B\-\-lang fr|en
Choose the language of message for METRo.  Default is english. Only French is currently implemented as other language.
.TP
.B \-\-log\-file filename
Set the path of the metro log file.
.TP
.B \-\-output\-subsurface\-levels
Optional.  Put in the output roadcast all the temperature for the subsurfaces levels, 19 levels for roads or a uniform grid at every cm for bridges. WARNING: Using this option slow down METRo by a factor of 2.
.TP
.B \-\-roadcast-start-date date
Optional.  If this argument is not present, the date of the last observation is used. Date of the first roadcast.  The format is ISO 8601.  See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601 for further details.
.TP
.B \-\-selftest
Execute a test with default files provided with metro.  The default command line is:

metro \-\-roadcast-start-date 2004\-01\-30T20:00Z \-\-input\-forecast ../../data/forecast/forecast_selftest.xml \-\-input\-observation ../../data/observation/observation_selftest.xml \-\-input\-station ../data/station/station_selftest.xml \-\-output\-forecast ../../data/roadcast/roadcast_selftest.xml \-\-verbose\-level 5
.TP
.B\-\-silent
Do not write in the standard output.
.TP
.B \-\-sunshadow\-method
Optional. Only used if \-\-enable\-sunshadow is set. 'method' takes the value of [1|2]. If no value is given, '1' is used as the default value.
  1 = Basic method (default). It sets solar flux to zero when Sun is below
      visible horizon
  2 = Enhanced method. Replaces global solar flux with its diffuse component 
      when Sun is below visible horizon.
.TP
.B \-\-use-anthropogenic-flux
Optional. Use this argument if you want to provide the anthropogenic flux in the atmospheric forecast file instead of using the default value of 10 W/m². The tag for anthropogenic flux in forecast file is '<fa>'. 
.TP
.B \-\-use-infrared-forecast
Optional. Use this argument if you want to provide the infra-fred flux in the atmospheric forecast file instead of a theoretical flux based on cloud cover. The tag for infra-red flux in forecast file is '<ir>'.
.TP
.B \-\-use-sst-sensor-depth
Optional. Use this argument if the subsurface sensor is not at 0.4 m from the surface. This value can be between 0.2 m and 0.6 m. The modified value should be in the station XML config file in the element '<sst-sensor-depth>, included in the <header> node. 
.TP
.B \-\-use-solarflux-forecast
Optional. Use this argument if you want to provide the solar flux in the atmospheric forecast file instead of a theoretical flux based on cloud cover. The tag for solar flux in forecast file is '<sf>'.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose\-level level
Select the verbose level of the logged messages of metro.  
.RS
0- No log is made of any message
.RE
.RS
1- Minimal level 
.RE
.RS
2- Normal (default)
.RE
.RS
3- Full
.RE
.RS
4- Debug
.RE
.TP
.B
\-\-version
output version information and exit

.SH EXAMPLES
Standard usage of METRo:
.RS 
metro  \-\-input\-forecast forecast.xml \-\-input\-observation observation.xml \-\-input\-station station.xml \-\-output\-forecast roadcast.xml
.RE
Fix the deep soil temperature to 0 degree Celsius:
.RS
metro  \-\-input\-forecast forecast.xml \-\-input\-observation observation.xml \-\-input\-station station.xml \-\-output\-forecast roadcast.xml \-\-fix\-deep\-soil\-temperature 0.0
.RE
Use the solar flux in the forecast file:
.RS
metro  \-\-input\-forecast forecast.xml \-\-input\-observation observation.xml \-\-input\-station station.xml \-\-output\-forecast roadcast.xml \-\-use\-solarflux\-forecast
.RE
Use the sun\-shadow method:
.RS
metro  \-\-input\-forecast forecast.xml \-\-input\-observation observation.xml \-\-input\-station station.xml \-\-output\-forecast roadcast.xml \-\-enable\-sunshadow \-\-sunshadow\-method 2

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Miguel Tremblay, Francois Fortin, Yves Delage and Louis-Philippe Crevier.
.SH COPYRIGHT
COPYRIGHT \(co 2004, Service Meteorologique du Canada, Environnement Canada.  See documentation at https://framagit.org/metroprojects/metro/wikis/home for details. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2.


.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <metro-users@framalistes.org>
